# ads-b
# Python Toolkit for using ADS-B Data to Understand Overflight Travel Patterns at U.S. National Parks

## [Applied Park Science Laboratory](https://kstateapslab.wixsite.com/appliedparkscience) and [Geographic Information Systems Spatial Analysis Laboratory](https://www.ksu.edu/gissal), Kansas State University

### Project Overview

Monitoring low-level overflights is important for the NPS to fulfill its mission of providing public enjoyment while preserving cultural and natural resources (Miller et al., 2017), which includes understanding relationships between overflights and quality terrestrial visitor experiences (Mace et al., 2013). Overflight noise can degrade the acoustic environment (Beeco et al., 2020) which has been shown to have adverse experiential effects on visitors (McDonald et al., 1995). Research at Hawai‘i Volcanoes National Park, which received the most reported air tours of any national park in 2019 (Lignell, 2020), determined that visitors found it unacceptable to hear overflight noise more than once per 15-minute interval (Lawson et al., 2007). The sight of too many overflights may also experientially impact visitors (Tarrant et al., 1995). Furthermore, overflights have been shown to impact biophysical resources, such as wildlife (Shannon et al., 2016), which subsequently could also compromise the visitor experience (Prakash et al., 2019)

A newer technology, Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B), can be used to understand overflight travel patterns (Beeco & Joyce, 2019). ADS-B technology features a radio signal that is broadcasted from aircraft for monitoring purposes, which improves airspace safety and air traffic efficiency (FAA, 2018). Data, including position, velocity, and aircraft identification, are sent to other aircraft and ground stations (Duong et al., 2019). Broadcasted ADS-B data is unencrypted, publicly accessible, and can be collected using a data logger (Beeco & Joyce, 2019). ADS-B data loggers can record latitude, longitude, timestamp, altitude, and unique identification code. The unique identification code can be connected to the FAA Releasable Database, which provides additional metadata, such as tail number and owner. 

Data logger components include antennas, software, display screen, USB dongle, 5V AC-DC regulator, 50’ AC power cable, thermal transfer pads, and a shielded aluminum enclosure (Beeco & Joyce, 2019). A terrestrial data logger with an expansive skyward exposure is effective at collecting large volumes of ADS-B data as millions of aircraft waypoints (Beeco & Joyce, 2020). 

### Project Objectives

The objectives of this project are to effectively track low-level overflights above NPS units, improve data processing, comprehensively describe spatio-temporal characteristics of overflight travel patterns, identify when and where overflights may be impacting terrestrial visitor experiences, and to produce 8-12 park-specific reports annually to assist the NPS in developing 23 total air tour plans. 

Intuitive data processing toolkits will be produced for both the achievement of this project’s deliverables and for future use by NPS staff, including those who are not GIS specialists. These easy-to-use toolkits simplify and expedite complicated data workflows and produce outputs that provide information about overflight travel patterns that will be beneficial when addressing overflight compliance, evaluating amendments of air tour plans, and adaptively managing air tours. To accomplish this, we propose a multi-module custom GIS “toolbox” that processes, analyzes, and creates visualizations from ADS-B data.  

GIS tools will be organized in a custom toolbox called the ADS-B Overflight Toolkit (Figure 1).  This toolkit will be designed for Esri’s ArcGIS geoprocessing environment as a custom toolbox and can be used locally to clean raw ADS-B Data, process and analyze data, develop descriptive summary statistics, conduct spatio-temporal analyses, and output a standard series of tabular and graphical results. 
